Okay,
guys.
And welcome back.
Now,
what we're going to do in this lecture is deconstruct the sun screen male subroutine.
And that's this one just here on.
That's the subroutine that we're going to use to gather all of our data in order to send
out emails.
No way.
At the bottom of our sunscreen e routine,
we have this little loop here that is going to call the e mail routine,
which is what I have called the code we just looked at.
And this is a copy of it on this.
Just a few Mordecai modifications in there,
but we'll come to that in a second.
Okay?
A few things to point out up from Firstly,
we are going to say option base one,
because we are using an array and we wanted to a race to begin at one and not zero.
So we're stating right at the top option base one.
Okay,
We also want to force all of their variables to be declared.
So we have said option explicit,
and as you'll remember,
that force is very well built.
Declaration.
Okay,
Now,
because I want a pass data bit from one subroutine to another subroutine.
So So routine one gathers the data subroutine to sends the emails.
I need to pass data between the two subs.
I'm declaring the variables up here module level.
So I have dim blonde count,
and that is gonna count the number of blondes.
This will become clearer as we go through the code.
My array,
open brackets,
close brackets.
Because we don't yet know how big it is until we get the cant of the blondes.
So I'm dimension in the ray of the top or on declaring the array,
but well,
read emit later.
Okay?
My counter is a simple counter.
To populate the array,
my subject is gonna hold the subject of our email.
Okay,
let's get down to the code.
So here we go.
Sub sunscreen.
Male.
What this subroutine is going to do is it's going to look at our source data,
which is very familiar to you by now on,
What we're gonna do is we're gonna look for anyone with blonde hair on.
We're going to send them a promotional email about this fantastic sunscreen that we have
specifically for people with blond hair.
Okay,
so here's the data set.
So what we're gonna do is firstly,
we're going to state what the subject line will be and this is going to appear in a email.
So we're going to say is my subject equals check out our nose.
New sunscreens.
So far,
so good.
The sheet with the data in this She here has a VB name of ship data.
So we are making sure we're on the right screen.
So sure data dot select.
This is all very familiar,
Teoh.
Sure,
by now next we have the get blonde can't So what we're going to use here?
What we want to achieve is a royal A count.
How many times does the word blonde appear in column e now?
Because there is not account if equivalent function in V B A.
We have to call the application worksheet function count.
If so,
what?
We sell his application worksheet function count If range e comma on Dhere,
we say what we are looking for So in range E look for all the instances of blond and return
that count two blonde Count on.
Now we're going to know how many e mails we're gonna have to send.
So now we know how many e mails we have to send.
We can now re Dimension era ray so array Mireille is going to be.
However many blondes we have on.
We want to elements.
We want to elements because we want to get their first name on.
We also need to capture their email address now.
Obviously,
this is a test system,
so all the email addresses of Just Excel Essentials at gmail dot com.
But obviously in real life you would have actual email addresses in there.
Okay,
so far,
so good.
So next we come down to this section here,
which is fine.
The first Blonde in Column E.
Now this is by far the most efficient way of doing this,
because if you have 10,000 lines of data,
you could easily write a loop that says,
Find my first instance of this.
Is it in line one?
No move to Line two is in line to know moved to Line three,
but you could be down to line 50,000 before you find your first entry.
So by far the most efficient method is to find it using the find,
command or find function.
Now,
for some reason,
on.
I've never quite worked out why you cannot say columns e dot find and then say what you
want to find.
So you have to specify this in two separate bits of code.
So what we're gonna do is say columns e select that's going to select the whole of column E
.
And then with that selection,
we're gonna find what we're gonna find.
This is just from a recorded macro we're going to find blond,
and that will find our first section now because we've selected what we actually want to do
is make the active cell.
That is the first instance we found the active cell.
So at the moment,
we have all of e selected.
But what we actually want to do is make that first found self.
The active cells are active.
Cell got select that finds our first instance of the blonde.
So blonde isn't at position number one.
This is going to save you a boatload of time.
Now,
the counter is what we're going to use to populate our array.
So we're gonna initialize the counter that is,
we're going to set its beginning value at zero.
Okay,
now we have a while wend loop.
And what we're gonna do with this while wind loop is Let me just flip back.
We're going to continue.
Remember,
we're in column and we've selected the first blonde,
whatever that is there locally.
And we're gonna carry on all the way down here until we hit our first blank.
So we're going to say,
while the active seldom value does not equal blank,
then continue toe wind.
Now,
the first thing we want to find out is if my cantor,
which is added down here just here,
is equal to the blonde count because it could be that we have x number of blondes within
our list.
But it could be that the last 2000 interests don't actually have a blonde in there.
So once we've captured them all,
we don't want to carry on looping down all the rest of the rose to get to the very bottom.
To make this active cell doesn't equal blank statement.
True,
What we want to do is constantly check Hemley,
do we need And how many have we already got?
Once the two values match,
then actually we can just skip the loop because we've got everything that we need to do.
OK,
so next let's have a look at this eso here we haven't.
If the active cell equals blonde,
that's very straightforward.
If the act itself does equal blonde,
my cancer equals my counter plus one a Remember,
we initialized it here,
So at the moment it's worth zero on here.
It's gonna be with zero plus one.
So if we have found a blonde,
we're gonna increase my counter by one.
So now my cans at is worth one.
So my array one the value of my cantor Comma one.
The first element is going to read this string just here.
So let me see if I can keep that in shut and just drag out a little bit.
That should still be in shot.
So what we're saying is,
let's break this down.
We're using the in string and the active cell offset zero rose minus four.
So we're looking in column A and we are looking for a space.
So that's what this does.
This is looking for a space in the string in the correspondent cell in column.
So once we have found the string,
we're going to use the left function again.
We're looking at column Active cell offset zero minus four.
And we're going to subtract one because this space is going to be one character after the
first name.
So that's a very jazzy way of extracting the first name from this to name String that
appears in column A.
Okay,
so far,
so good and see fucking putting that back over there.
Okay,
Now we get down to loading the second element of the array on my array.
My counter,
which on the first pass through is worth one.
So my array one element to is active cell offset 02 which is the email address.
Okay,
so far,
so good.
Once we've done all that moved down the cell.
Now,
if the active cell wasn't blonde,
what we want to do is just move down a cell anyway.
And then we're going to repeat on.
That's going to continue to execute until my counter matches the count off blondes in our
list.
Sorry.
There's something I forgot to point out right here.
When we do this,
my counter equals blown count.
If it's true,
then go to e mail section and you can see down here we have something that says email
section Colon on.
Even if I try to tap that over when I click off,
it will automatically go back.
Now,
this is a label and you can identify label because it has colon after it on.
All this does is it will say when my cantor equals blonde count,
then go to E mail section.
It will completely skip all the rest of this code and immediately moved down to here.
OK,
so far,
so good.
Now we're going to use my counts at again on what we're going to do is say,
for my cancer equals one to the number of blondes that we have.
So for every blonde we have,
we want to look through this one time now because we've already captured the value of this
into the variable,
we can no pass this toe e mail routine on.
We're gonna have a look at that in the next like jet.
OK,
I'll see you in the next link,
chap.